Oh
hi guys I'm Laura Vitale on this episode
of Laura in the kitchen I'm going to
show you how to make tomato soup it has
been requested so many times hear and
learn in the kitchen so I figured hey
I'm in a mood between a soup so let me
show you how to make it now let's go
with in Greece so you can get started
you need some fresh tomatoes chopped
onion chicken stock
these are some Italian peeled tomatoes
garlic salt pepper extra virgin olive
oil and you need a few extra ingredients
which I'll get into when the time comes
so for now what the first thing I wanna
do is get your oven preheated to 425
what I'm going to do is roast my
tomatoes I like my tomato soup to have
some fresh tomatoes in them these
tomatoes are not that fabulous and sweet
so what I'm going to do is I'm going to
roast them to bring out the natural
sweetness in tomatoes and it gives you
like a really sort of sweet roasted
tomato flavor and I think it's amazing
in this recipe so cut them in half it's
close to me and you can use any tomatoes
that you want I'm using just a regular
just plum tomatoes but that's what I
found but I'm not that sweet so this is
really going to help with bringing out
the sweetness stuff salsa and I'm going
to add one more ingredient which I
didn't have out there's a little bit of
balsamic vinegar balsamic vinegar is
going to break down and really give the
tomatoes a beautiful caramelized color
which I love so toss everything together
I'm going to put them cut side down I'm
going to pop these into the oven for
about 20 to 25 minutes or until they've
developed a good caramelized color and
they cook down and then I'm going to pop
these in wash my hand and you go into
making the rest of the seat at a large
soup pot here with about to the two and
a half tablespoons of olive oil over
medium heat and since am I'm going to
add in my onions
I'm not going at the garlic and yet
because I really want to cook the onions
for a little bit about five to eight
minutes until they'll develop a good
caramelized color and they start to
break down and I gotta tell you I'm so
excited for the soup it is one of my
favorites it's got obviously tomatoes
and basil so it's a classic combination
that I love but it's also perfect
because it's great for back-to-school or
if you go into work and you want a good
lunch I'm going to top this with some
parmesan croutons and I'll show you how
to make this as well um but you know
it's fabulous make us to the night
before and then put it in a thermos
right the next morning pop it in the
microwave
heat it up put in a thermos cover it
tightly the croutons stay perfect at
room temperature like in an airtight bag
or container bring it to school you're
going to have warm soup put in some
croutons it is perfect I would serve it
alongside some pita chips and hummus and
you have got a lunch people will be
jealous about I guarantee it so that's
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
kind of babysit my onion and wait until
they get a nice good caramelized color
and in the meantime I'm going to cut up
some baguette for my course on onions a
perfect I'm going to add in my garlic
and I'm only going to let the garlic
cook about a minute I just want to get
rid of that raw garlic flavor so as
that's going I'm going to finish with my
croutons I just have a roasted garlic
baguette here but you can use any kind
of bread that you want any kind of bread
you have on hand grab my olive oil I'm
going to drizzle it with some good
quality olive oil and then I'm going to
grate over some good quality Parmesan
cheese looks good I'm not even going to
toss it that's why I put everything kind
of all the bright together so I'm not
even going to bother tossing them it's
going to melt over the top the bottoms
make it nice and crunchy still issues
but before I pop that into the oven and
I check my garlic just looking good
smells better I'm going to give that
another 30 seconds I'm going to pop my
croutons into the oven same temperature
425 but I'm going to put this in the
middle rack so that doesn't burn for
about 10 to 15 minutes or until they're
golden brown and crunchy and crouton
like and I'm going to let them and set
them aside to cool some
even add in my tomatoes when you are
buying canned tomatoes make sure that
you buy the kind that's low in sodium or
no sodium and make sure it's a nice
Italian brand because the time I got the
best tomatoes so at this point you have
a fabulous marinara sauce but that's not
what we want so I'm going to fit it out
with some chicken stock you could also
use vegetable stock it's not be totally
fine
looks awesome already need this a stir
now I'm going to turn things on medium
so that's good I'm going to wait for
that to come up to a boil
I'm actually going to stick in some
basil but I'm not chopping it because
I'm actually going to fish this out
because if I were to puree the basil in
the soup it would have like like a
greenish red color and I want to be pure
red and delicious so I'm going to put
this in to get all the flavor but then
I'm going to fish it out so let this
come up to boil let it simmer for about
20 minutes and then in 20 minutes the
tomatoes will be roasted the croutons
will will be done this will have a
couple more minutes and then I'll kind
of show you the last few steps soups
been simmering for about 20 minutes and
take out my basil if a couple pieces get
left behind that's fine it's not going
to change up the color that much my
tomatoes or gorgeous yeah they're all
stumped up and they're golden brown and
that's what you want they smell so
delicious gonna just take them out put
them right in
I also took out my um my croutons
there's something on the back burner
they're just kind of chilling out and
cooling down alrighty
last of the tomatoes it's good give this
a nice stir and I'm going to let this
simmer for about five minutes and in the
meantime I'm going to get my immersion
blender ready we plugged in if you don't
have an immersion blender which is just
a handheld blender which I'll show you
in a second you can do the same exact
thing in a regular blender isn't going
to make a difference it's just easier
that's all so let this simmer for five
minutes and then clean up you may may
immersion blender now show
next step looks awesome and smells even
better I'm going to turn this off
because you don't you never want to use
your immersion blender while you have
the pot on because it could bubble up
and and hit you in the face and then
nothing is worth getting hurt remember
that no matter how good it is this is
the immersion blender it's basically a
blender that I can just it's a handheld
blender but like I said you can use a
regular blender if we process so
whatever and just blend this until nice
and smooth that looks good now
you could serve this I'm going to add
cream to this but I'm gonna pass it
through a sieve first because you know I
don't kind of like the peel of the
tomatoes back left behind so we're going
to pass it through a sieve and get a
nice and smooth but you can absolutely
serve it like this if it doesn't bother
you um you know I prefer my tomato soup
really nice and smooth and creamy and
decadent and delicious so I'm going to
just take the extra few minutes get a
nice facial here with the steam and pass
it through that's what I'm going to do
once you have it all passed let put it
back into the same pot oh yeah now
that's awesome
I'm going to season it with some salt
and pepper because we got to really
season this a whole lot of course always
start with the pepper and you want to
make sure you season it well with salt
because you're going to be adding some
cream in there which is sweet the
tomatoes are very sweet they need salt
so once that comes up to a boil I'm
going to add in the cream well I'll show
you what it looks like once we put it
all together because we're pretty much
done just going to add in a touch of
cream and you can absolutely omit the
cream if you don't want to but I'm gonna
put it in I'm just going to give it a
stir
continue to let it cook for a couple
minutes just to make sure it's nice and
piping hot guys perfect now if you are
making this for lunch for tomorrow at
this point I would cool it put it into
the fridge then tomorrow
morning get up of five extra minutes
like five minutes early he did happen a
microwave put in a thermos cover it up
you've got yourself a good lunch serve
it with some like pita chips and hummus
Oh gorgeous smells wonderful and then
you can put your croutons I'm going to
dunk them right in
you can put your croutons in a little
ziplock bag and by the time you get to
school or work or whatever and lunchtime
because the soup is in the thermos it'll
stay nice and warm your croutons will
still be crunchy so win-win taste the
soup first so good so smooth like it's
not very heavy which I like it's got a
very delicate tomato flavor but that's
my this way I like it if you like a
thicker use a little bit less stock you
can always play around with a ratio just
make it once or twice and then that way
you'll know how you like it I'll taste a
crouton hopped-up absolutely divine put
a www.h to get this recipe
I've enjoyed spending time with me and
I'll see you
you